build and nurture an email list we did not do
this soon enough we were all stupid we thought
email was dead how do you climb to the top of
the charts in a very competitive category for
podcasting that's going to talk about that today
as well as Partnerships listen everybody and their
brother has a podcast and standing out is becoming
even harder like it's so competitive today we will
be speaking with someone who has climbed to the
top of one of the most competitive categories
health and fitness I will be speaking with one
of the hosts of the show mind pump the Mind
pump podcast is dedicated to providing truthful
fitness and health related information the guys
are raw they're real they're sometimes shocking
they're always entertaining the hosts are Sal di
Stefano Adam Schaefer Justin Andrews and of course
I don't want to forget their fourth partner Doug
together they have a combined 50 years of Fitness
experience as personal trainers Club managers ifb
competitors thought leaders and business owners
get this the show regularly ranks in the top 10
for Apple podcasts and the show has over
170 million downloads it's Sal di Stefano
from mind pump media and today he shares with us
the very unique partnership four-way partnership
he and his three buddies have bucked the system
ignored conventional advice and wisdom like you
know don't get a partner do the stuff yourself
and they split everything four ways and when I
say everything I literally mean everything your
your mind's going to be blown when you hear about
their relationship and how because of the trust
they have with each other and their belief in
each other I believe it's one of the reasons why
the show is so popular so if you're not already
following them on YouTube you definitely need to
they are a top ranked podcast and today Sal sits
down with me to share exactly what it took from
the very beginning the strategies how they've
monetized the show what they're doing today to
monetize the show we talk about merch we talk
about Community Facebook groups Live Events
the strategy behind using a YouTube channel
to grow the show and so much more this guy
is completely forthright I mean just shares
everything so you are in store for a fantastic
build your tribe episode alright let's get to it
foreign [Music] all four of you are absolutely
killing it in the podcast space um I just am
blown away by the success you guys have had tell
me about what you think really catapulted the show
um because you when did you start the show uh 2016
I think is uh okay so yeah so we've been I think
about 2016 is that is that right Doug when do we
start the podcast sorry 2015 so I'm off so 2015
is when we start we almost has it always been the
same format of four well actually three of you on
camera one off camera yes and it wasn't camera at
first it was uh just podcast we added the camera
a little later on um but I mean we're just as
Blown Away by the success to be honest with you
um we love it we absolutely love doing it and
I I think I'll speak a little like kind of
generally on on uh the success and then I'll get
a little bit more I guess granular but overall
we we honed our skills through training Everyday
People for years and years and years and years
and what you learn as a trainer and here's
what I mean by that because people think oh
you learn how to exercise you learn
technique and all that stuff no no
when you get good as a trainer what you really
learn is how to communicate Fitness this is
what you really learn like how can I get you know
how can I get Mrs Johnson to take these steps and
to adopt these new behaviors forever right so
you have to learn this uh I'll give you here's
a silly example right um somewhat when I was an
early trainer I used to get this a lot right like
um you know I don't have a lot of time to work
out I have kids in a mortgage and a job and so
I just I just can't I just don't have a lot
of time to dedicate and then what I used to
say is they used to do this like motivational
speech about there's only 24 hours in a day and
what you make of those hours you know it's up to
you and if the more you dedicate to exercise the
more time you'll have for other things there's a
lot more energy and blah blah and that's all true
but it wasn't a very effective communication
strategy later on I just said this yeah it
sounds like you're really busy how much time do
you have to dedicate and then whatever they gave
me was the right answer and we would start there
and and the reason why that was so effective was
because I knew if I could get them in once a
week or whatever that if I did a good job that
they would themselves want to do more so that's
just one example where the where they are and
you guys do such a freaking unbelievable job of
on the show is you're not speaking to trainers
you know do you know what I mean like even though
you guys all are former trainers you're speaking
to the person who needs your help like the person
who's wanting to learn this and so you're meeting
them where where they are like I you know
I love that you guys have such reasonable
and honest advice yeah well we had to figure that
out because for years we sucked we were terrible
trainers in the beginning we had to learn and
we had to learn and we were all passionate we
all love that's the thing that one thing that we
all have in common because uh my co-host and I
we didn't work together okay we worked in the
same industry but we didn't work together I didn't
really no I didn't meet them until we started
the podcast oh you're kidding no that's true
um but we all trained people for a long time and
we all have a deep passion uh for helping people
so we all had to figure out how to make
how to get people to be able to do this
forever how do I communicate this how do I
communicate nutrition how do I communicate
all the intricacies and how do I and so what
does that look like okay so I'll tell you
some elements and this will make sense if you
listen to our show this will all make sense
as a trainer if you really want to be
good and you want to be effective and
you want people to show up and see you week
after week month after month year after year
um they have to want to come see you so a
big part of what you do is not Fitness it's
conversation it's fun it's uh entertainment it's
how do I uh you know how can I be a chameleon
and talk to different people and while people are
interesting let me ask you some questions and all
that stuff right so if you listen to our podcast
the first half is us talking about current events
family life things that don't have anything to do
with Fitness because those are the those are the
conversations that we had with our clients and
then we throw the Fitness in at the end or you
know when I would train my clients there was
the when the opportunities would rise that's
when I would drop the fitness knowledge the bombs
or whatever and it just you know that's one piece
that we learned we learned uh you know what
worked what didn't work how to communicate it
um and that's kind of what shaped the show and
then there's some stuff that I can't necessarily
put my finger on like um I like I said I didn't
know Adam and Justin I knew Doug beforehand but
shortly but I didn't know Adam and Jessa my
co-host until really we started the show and
we just all had this great chemistry um that's
what I was gonna say that's why it's so surprising
to me yeah that um you were friends beforehand no
like we all um I mean we all for lack of a better
term fell in love with each other like um were
yeah look look we're all very different if you
get to know us you'll see that we're all quite
different but um they're very my co-hosts are
very dedicated to integrity so that's deep for
us like we won't compromise that for anything
we all have a deep passion for helping people so
what's going to help people is always at the top
um we all uh love a challenge we all learned
through training people that if you want to get
better at something you got to practice it often
so that's why we do fi people like why do you do
five episodes a week we started five episodes
a week because we knew how bad we were at media
and we knew if we did more episodes we would get
better faster so we just we just did a lot of them
to get better uh faster um and then more than five
we started with three and we very quickly moved to
five because we wanted to get better quick uh like
just like practicing and exercise like the fastest
way to get better is to to practice it often um so
we did that right out the gates and then you know
um my co-hosts are and my partners are just they
have some skill sets and and some some things that
are very complementary like Adam is uh a business
Savant I mean the guy when it comes to business
is just he's he's he's brilliant with it Justin
is so stable and so confident and so secure and
he's also so likable Justin is so likable and
Adam and I can be a little polarizing him and I
have the big mouths right Justin is there another
show where there's three personalities on the mic
I don't know that's a good question I don't think
so and and there's a couple where there's two that
means not a couple there's a lot of shows where
there's two hosts I can't think of another show
where there are three really hosts who are
on pretty regularly and from the beginning
was the idea to launch the podcast as a business
as a money maker as a hobby like what was the goal
from the beginning um the idea was for it to be
a business but we didn't monetize for a year so
we wanted to provide so much value we wanted to
prove that we could create that value and that
we could create some Authority and after about
a year we had people messaging us saying um how
can I donate money to the show or can you start
a patreon or do you have anything I could buy
because you've already helped me so much with your
podcast and that's when we know we had a business
um but we didn't do anything for a year we wanted
to really build it and do a good job I wanted it
to be a business was was your plan to monetize it
in terms of advertising your own programs or was
it you thought you would get advertisers what was
what was the the play the first workout program
was created before mind pump ever started so I
created that with with Doug so Doug was a client
of mine that's how him and I became friends
he approached me after about six months of
training because he was a fitness fanatic before
came to work out with me got better results than
he ever had before and so he said he came to
me and he said Sal if you ever want to sell
anything online let me know I have some online
sales experience and that's when I created the
first workout program and then we made the whole
digital program it was the first time I was on
camera doing this like the sales pitch and the
you know presenting the program and all that stuff
okay and we had that all packaged and created
but I didn't have any online Authority so then
the next strategy was I mean I had Authority
in my local area as a trainer but like yeah
on the internet like and I'm not gonna do I'm
not like a bodybuilder I'm not something like
crazy looking whatever and I don't want to go down
that road either so you know like how do we create
Authority and podcasts came up like a podcast
would be a great way because you can explain
yourself and people can hear what you know um and
so that was a bit of an idea I had known of Adam
uh before so him and I never really met but we
had friends in common this is really weird now
at least at least on five separate occasions
I would have people come up to me and say
you need to you need to meet this guy named Adam
like after the third time I would be like let me
guess Adam they'd be like yeah how'd you know
like this is so weird bro um and the same thing
would happen to him people come up to him and say
you got to meet this guy Sal you got to meet this
guy okay we never met well anyway I had remembered
um him and him and I had started communicating on
uh Facebook for for something different uh just
long story short I had a family member that was
battling some really bad chronic illness I had
done some research into cannabinoids those are
the molecules found in marijuana at the time
Adam had actually started the first uh medical
marijuana clubs here in San Jose he left Fitness
for a second and done that um and so him and I
were communicating about that and then I created
the first workout program and I said you know what
Adam was in the fitness industry forever everybody
keeps telling me I got to work with this guy he
very blunt and that's Adam he'll tell you straight
up you know it's kind of like you like you're very
honest he'll tell you I appreciate that yeah so I
I messaged him and I said hey I created a workout
program and I made a digital you know where you
could you know follow it and all that stuff I said
um would you mind giving me your advice like
your opinion on it he says yeah absolutely so I
sent it to him he called me back the next day and
he's like we need to meet he loved it we need to
sit down and meet wow and so then we all sat down
and we uh that's when I met Justin and um this is
when the chemistry kicked in right we all sat down
when did the third person I understand how you and
Doug knew each other how did Justin come into
the picture Justin and Adam so Justin and Adam
had worked together in the fitness industry and
then later we're trying to do other businesses uh
together they were trying to create this fitness
app they were investing in and trying to work so
they knew each other through that all right so we
all sit down for the first time business history
there between the two of them okay so Adam and
Justin and then Doug and I were kind of like
okay and then okay so then we sat down this was at
Adam's house um and um this is when the chemistry
was like a thing like we sat down and we had a
four-hour conversation like you ever do that you
meet somebody and you just like oh this is like
I feel like I've known you or we're having this
great so uh we all sit down with four people and
feel that way about all four yes it's pretty rare
very rare So we had this wonderful stimulating
conversation all of us had the same ideas about
the fitness industry and the direction we want to
go and what we thought we could do and what it got
wrong and what it got right in fact at what time
were you working still uh full-time in Fitness at
that time I had just sold my Wellness Studio but
I was still training clients okay and when did
when did you uh give that up uh it was it was when
we monetized so as soon as we started monetizing
like we were all we all very quickly did better
than we were doing with our other jobs uh or
careers and then we all said okay we need to
let's do this full time so people listen to the
show people watch the show they that's a question
that that point where you say okay I'm going all
in I'm gonna walk away from my whatever full-time
job or maybe it's another business different side
hustle my recommendation is always You're Gonna
know it doesn't always have to be the moment
when you know the new income replaces the old
income it's when you know it has that potential
when it has your full attention agree so had
you already surpassed your income or were you
we saw the potential was there now uh there's
a little side note um I had Justin and I were
already dads and married Adam at the time it
wasn't wasn't a father yet he was still you
know and so we had some responsibilities
so we were a little bit more careful
um had I not had those responsibilities I would
have jumped ship much sooner because you could
see like this was going to become a thing but
we waited a little bit just to be kind of safe
uh nonetheless we still I mean we dedicate a
lot of time uh to doing it even while we did
our other jobs but yeah it was once we saw that
oh this is a business then that was it we we I've
got a lot of questions for you regarding the
podcast sure and we have a lot you know I feel
like most business owners now most entrepreneurs
a lot of us have podcasts so we're going to get
into some of those you know that secret sauce
of why you guys have just exploded but I also
want to ask some questions about the partnership
because I just think I'm sure so unique and so
rare like since I met you guys I've told your
story to so many friends who are entrepreneurs
and they're like what like yeah like they are
four-way Partners like in almost everything am
I right yeah you know it's equal 20 25 25 25 25.
yeah that's it's so hard to do that with someone
who you're married to I know how do you make that
work it was serendipitous I think because um look
uh I I'm a Serial entrepreneur so all my partners
I would never recommend somebody do that like if
somebody came to me and said hey I want to start a
business I want to get three other partners all of
us you know Own It equally or whatever I'd say
not a good idea probably not going to work out
yeah I you know we're all we're also dedicated
to winning that we don't care who's in the front
who's doing what and we all know that and and I
think maybe because we were older when we started
this and we'd already done businesses like you
know you ever watch those stories of like the
band that takes off and then the lead singer all
of a sudden thinks he's hot [__] wants to leave
yeah and then it breaks about it like look I tell
you what man um we all are so grateful for each
other that I mean all of us have done something
in this business that generated a significant
amount of Revenue that we did by ourselves and
we split it with everybody I mean the book that I
published I wrote that it split four ways with my
partners and I did that now so was that something
that you guys put into play or put into place
in writing when you formed your partnership
God this is gonna sound terrible but well
okay the business yes was four-way but a
lot of it was just handshake and agreement
and understanding um you know when I first
realized we had something special in that sense
I'll tell you if this funny story when we first
started the podcast we actually had another
partner that was going to do it with us and
this gentleman he had the social media following
none of us had a social media following Adam had
a small one but this guy had a big one and he
was going to give us our like kind of our start
right that sure leg up we recorded 15 episodes
we were literally days away from launching the
podcast we've done all this work edited it like
here we go we're ready to launch this podcast
this guy he had some sponsorships because he
was in the bodybuilding kind of Fitness space
and he sent the episodes to his sponsors and
said hey what do you think and they said very
entertaining but kind of risky because
we were very like you know the message
was like supplements are going to change your
life you know they lie a lot and well these
are supplement companies so they said uh yeah
we don't know how we feel about you doing this
and at the time he was making a little bit of
money with sponsorships he he sends us a text
literally days before already launch and he
says hey guys I'm sorry I don't want you guys
to release those episodes I gotta I gotta bail
so this was after like some significant work
my months of work is are you suggesting then that
you were going to be planning on being a five-way
partnership we were at the time now here's
the thing here's the serendipitous part right
so okay I I get the message and I'm like damn
this is terrible and so I immediately went into
okay motivate and Lead my team this is just my
mentality because we got to keep going we have
something here so I literally I I in my head I'm
like this is what I'm going to say to the guys
because we need to keep going I don't want I
don't want to stop doing this I get on the phone
and before I could say a word Adam says F
that we're going to keep going anyway let's
record new episodes I couldn't I didn't even say
anything and that's when I that's one that was
like the first time I knew like oh these guys
are great there's some other times too like
um you know we've definitely gone into arguments
and battles and fights about where the businesses
should go we always let it all out sometimes it
gets loud and I remember there was one uh one
really you know kind of loud argument it's usually
between Adam and I were the most outspoken we got
this big old debate battle back and forth it was
really uncomfortable for everybody but whatever
we decided whatever we're gonna go in that
direction we I left I called him up right
afterwards and immediately we're like hey I
appreciate that we had that no hard feelings
this is the direction we're gonna go let's do
it so whatever the idea is if we all go in that
direction that's everybody's idea now whether it
succeeds or fails that was another moment that I
knew like we're you know this is special so um
I don't know I I can't tell you yeah age over
generalized but like you know I see my husband or
like when I watch my son play basketball and you
know guys will shove each other and be like you
you know and just the way they and then just like
high-five each other and slap each other on the
butt when they walk off the court and women I mean
again I'm generalizing but it just sticks around
a little longer and there's it's hard to forget
I just feel like partly that is going to make it
a little bit easier but there's got to be times
where you have had disagreements and maybe even
alliances form and you have got to wonder like
it could there be cracks in the foundation do you
ever worry about and do you have a plan in place
yeah no I mean deal breaker um I mean since we've
done like the whole insurance thing and you know
we've we've definitely organized the business the
way you're supposed to but there's no no that's
never that's there's no that's never happened
it would be such a shock if something like that
happened because of how we operate with each
other you know what it is it's this overarching
goal like we all when we talk about this often
like we do these Live Events where we meet our
fans and they make us no money they make us no
money but it grounds us every time we do it it
grounds us and it's this this overarching thing
which is we're here to do this thing we're here
to help people we're here to transform the fitness
industry we're doing a good thing so that's more
important than my feelings if my idea gets shot
down or if they disagree with me so we get over
it and we just move forward and and so I mean I
wish I I could say there was a like a technique
or a way to do that but um I've been very blessed
with my partners because we all have that attitude
like none of us we've never gone behind the other
you know guys back and said something or whatever
it's always it's up front it's everybody
we're together and there's no questions
there's zero questions it's like full trust
full you know full steam ahead and again like
we've done things well we've done things that
I don't agree with we've done things that my
partners haven't agreed with but when we agree to
do something if it fails it's even if I it's not
like like we let's say let's say we get a debate
and I say I don't think we should do that and
they're like we should and I agree and then they
vote and then we're going to go in that direction
and then it fails I don't sit there and go I
told you it's now my idea it's my idea now too
yeah and and you know I think you learn a lot more
from your failures than you do successes anyway so
it's it's all ours we've had um lots of
Partnerships uh a variety of Partnerships
I've always tried to avoid them because you know
you learn from business mentors they rarely work
out in the long run but it's human nature to
have this natural bias that I'm doing more
than everybody else yeah like it's just human
nature especially when you're a type a and an
entrepreneur so there's got to be moments for for
each of you where you're thinking like wait I'm
the secret sauce or I'm doing more work or I'm
doing more lifting right now and have you done
that and how do you have that conversation you
know um Everybody picks up the slap your reaction
I'm sorry what was your you were kind of went
oh about a time yeah I mean at any given moment
um or period or season in the business
somebody's that somebody's doing that
um but we all know our value like I there's no
I have there's no distortions for me that if I
lost one of my partners that all of a sudden
like I don't need them right uh I think they
all feel the same way we're all very proud when
we can contribute okay um that conversations
never happened we've never sat down and said I'm
doing more if anything it's more like I mean look
I tell you what there was a period there where I
was doing when I was writing the book and going
on this like podcast tour I was so happy that I
could contribute that way I felt so like like I
could do this for my my team you know I know the
guys kind of feel the same way so no and at this
point look we've had conversations like this
at this point if one of us decided to bounce
all of us are like we've already done enough
we've earned our place so you could literally
F off and do nothing and you're still gonna
get paid like we all kind of have the attitude
so I mean remarkable I know it's weird I was
having a conversation with a friend of mine who
um was in a partnership uh his partner's married
he's married and they just had to dissolve the
partnership because of the spouses um and you
know so so there it's not just for people trying
to navigate you know you're married and I don't
I don't know what the rest of guys uh marital
situation is I think you said Doug's married right
no no but Doug has a daughter you know what's the
case I'll tell you here I'll give you I'll give
you an example Adam struggled with that at the
beginning because I have kids Justin has kids
Doug has his daughter and we're all very family
oriented our family is very important Adam at the
time didn't have kids and he was very much in that
like I'm going to work Bell to Bell right mode oh
yeah and and we were especially me because I had
just gotten out of a divorce where dual custody so
the time I get with my kids is very limited anyway
where I was not going to sacrifice uh you know
relationship with my kids I had done that in the
beginning so much like uh yeah not in the being a
mind pump but in my career I was a workaholic so
I was like I'm not going to do that Adam struggled
with it for a while and we would talk about it and
you know you could tell he's like we gotta you
know whatever and um he he'll tell you now like
it was a great thing for him because now he has a
son and he loves it and he's like man we do more
working less than I ever did before and it was a
great so his attitude about it is amazing but and
he he will publicly say it was a struggle with
him for him in the beginning for sure because he
was the guy that was you know I don't I don't have
kids at home I want to do this like Bell to Bell
let's go it's a great business as well growing
he'll tell you looking back it worked out the
way it was supposed to that's him saying that now
so it's pretty cool that's amazing informing your
your your business to your corporation um early
on had you defined each of your roles or has that
evolved as organically as a show it totally
did it evolved like in the beginning we did
everything together I remember there was a point
there where we're like okay guys we need to like
divide because we can't just you know it's like
you know we can't always do everything together
it slows things down but now it looks like um you
know I do a lot of the you know I guess you could
say I like the face so I'll go on with the shows
I'll present us I'll do a lot of the sales pitches
um I'll I'll put together a lot of the content
or organize a lot of the episodes that kind of
stuff okay um Adam behind the scenes you know
he's the Puppet Master doing the business
um he's out there we have another arm of the
business uh mind pump Investments where we
have properties and Angel Investing he's heavily
like that guy brings opportunities to us and then
we decide if we're gonna do it but he does the
research and he goes out and he makes it happen
Justin nuts and bolts man we put a program
together he organizes the shoot the models
where the the the you know the the date let's
make it happen let's go he's also very creative
um and he can bring a lot of humor uh to what
we do uh Doug is the he wears every single hat
that exists in the business he's the producer
he's very much in charge of quality control
for the show both the video and the audio he's
got his hands in the the uh you know with the
editors more than any of us he handles a lot of
our Banking and finances but that all happened
kind of organically we all kind of just moved
to what we did best and then it just kind of
worked out that way well it's remarkable um
so let's talk about the show a little bit um
initially you were just doing audio when did you
decide to do video and what did that look like
we we did video oh so we did audio up
first because we had the audio equipment
um and we initially started with a very small
investment and we wanted to bootstrap it we didn't
want to try and like whatever so we did that and
then we said you know we should probably Park
some of our space on YouTube it's a it's a
platform it's growing so all we did was we
um videotaped the podcast but we didn't make it a
show so literally these cameras on us and we just
did the podcast it wasn't like we're on camera
we're going to make this a show so we did that
for a little while okay and it wasn't that God
that would have been probably three years in
I would say so we've been around for
about eight years about three years in so
um we also did a YouTube channel where we do
like exercise demos and stuff like that okay so
we did that um it wasn't until about a year and a
half ago let me think maybe a year and a half two
years ago where we all sat down we said okay let's
put some time and energy into making this like an
actual show so we invested in studio lights and
making it visually appealing we hired an improv
coach to come do improv with us before the you're
kidding that's fantastic I did not know that yeah
yeah yeah yeah so we we wanted to get better
right we want to get better at being on camera
so this improv coach comes in does some exercises
with us teaches us a few ways or whatever
um and then we you know bought better cameras um
we in-house um one of our employees then took over
the YouTube editing and then we've hired staff to
do that that's only about a year and a half two
years in um but the YouTube uh side is growing
quite well it's actually a whole new audience
which is really interesting tell me about your
success this is uh yeah I want you to brag okay so
um we have a pretty good reach I'd say the
show you know ranges between six to ten million
downloads a month the YouTube channel lots of
Impressions I'd say one of our channels has three
quarters of a million subscribers the other one is
at close to 400 000 subscribers that's the podcast
um you know uh we our revenue streams uh largest
is our programs second would be sponsorships and
then we have after that you know like Affiliates
and stuff like that and you're very selective
about your sponsorships aren't you yes because
they they we represent them but they represent
us too that's right um and I don't want to present
a product or a supplement or something that my my
viewers or listeners don't get a good experience
with we've built a tremendous so all right I'll
brag a little bit yeah our sponsors work with us
but they also work with other podcasts and some
of them work with big podcasts like Joe Rogan
or like massive massive podcasts our conversion
rate is the best hands down and it's because our
audience trusts us they trust us because we've
been so selective and we don't sell uh we don't
bullish people like I'll give you an example we
we worked with the supplement company great
product tastes like garbage but great product
it gives you good results that's what we said on
the show yeah okay they got so mad too by the way
they emailed us you can't say it tastes like crap
and we said wait a couple months and let's see
what the conversion looks like and then they got
the numbers like okay go ahead say whatever you
want it's working I love it yeah you know so I I
assume your approach on the regular by agencies
that you know want want to bring multiple ads to
you do you work with an agency or do you prefer
it's one-on-one in-house uh Adam really organized
this and spearheaded that and now his wife um who
works for the company manages that and so she
manages the sponsorships the commercial Cadence
how well we're doing and Performing she sends them
clips of the commercials and gives us instructions
on what direction they want us to go and comes
with what comes up with ideas and we have a very
very robust comprehensive back end with that
so and our partners appreciate it quite a bit I
have to tell you yeah I mean we speak to a lot of
different agencies and they're regularly you know
trying to bring us on board and there's times
where we have you know thought okay well it's
extra money it's extra Revenue these especially
our back catalog Etc but there is nothing in my
mind that is more valuable in this space than
trust it's more it's far more valuable to an
Advertiser that the the show hosts have trust with
their audience that's far more valuable than the
number of downloads you have or you know how long
you've been doing this how many subscribers none
of that's relevant if you don't have trust 100
there's this like industry standard for how much
you're supposed to get paid per thousand downloads
yeah we we crushed that because uh our conversion
rates are are far and above that yeah because of
that it's because of the trust and we will not
break that that's the Integrity part that I talked
about like yeah we've turned down a lot of money
because something about the product or the people
there's a whole process right they want to work
with us we got to like the product and we got
to see value in it for ourselves and for our
audience then we meet the CEOs or the owners and
then we gotta like them too I don't want to work
with amen I don't want to work with people I don't
like or people who are slimy or you know whatever
if we like the people and we like the product
then we'll we'll work with them but if one of
those things is off then we won't and we've turned
down a lot of people yeah that's that's incredible
integrity and I really do appreciate that you're
sharing that with the audience um so so you go
to YouTube you start doing five episodes a week
releasing five episodes a week on YouTube people
are now we know statistically speaking finding
podcasts and discovering podcasts on YouTube so
your Channel's growing there I assume that you're
able to monetize the content in addition to what
you're getting just for the audio show uh AdSense
yeah so um this is good information for people
starting a podcast a lot of people they think I'm
going to start a podcast and make all this money
with sponsorships you don't make decent money with
sponsorships or ads until you're big so now this
doesn't mean you don't have a business if you're
getting a couple thousand downloads an episode
you can sell your own product and you could
do very well that's right this is what we did
for a long time is we just sell our own fitness
programs now we didn't start making good money
with sponsorships and commercials until we got
really big now that becomes a pretty good source
of Revenue but if you had a thousand people tuning
in because podcasts do convert really well if you
do a good job because it's long form you get a
thousand people tuning in I mean you could you
could sell a coaching course or you know uh you
know Zoom calls or whatever I mean you can make
you can do really well with a small consistent
audience and never have to do a single sponsorship
talk to me about the play on getting big name
guests on the show how has that or has it not
helped the show like do you get more downloads
if you've got a you know a top ranked name or
somebody that's that that is almost no impact to
us we built the show with just the other three
of us and um those episodes actually do the best
now we interview people that we want to talk to
um and sometimes we'll get some people coming
over and we're getting better with our interview
I'd say skills um I think now we're getting we're
getting decent but um the show is really awesome
the shows the show is really us although I will
say this just full disclosure that is an area
now that we're going to focus on is we want to
get really good at the interview portion and get
good at that but right now our audience doesn't
listen to us for interviews they listen to us
for us so we'll have a guest on and it doesn't
really perform better than our regular episodes
I can I can attest to that too and although I
think YouTube might be a little different in
that regard um just because you know the algorithm
is going to serve people up the content of that
person video with them so it'll be interesting
to see in terms of before in terms of audio on
podcast I I think it was irrelevant you know
the guess that I had on because number one I'm
not going to ask them to promote it um you know
if it's someone who's really well known they're
they're on so many different podcasts I can't
Their audience doesn't care that they're on my
podcast you know what I mean I don't I don't
want to bug them to to do that so it just was
um in many cases more difficult more difficult
schedule uh difficult to you know do the research
and the prep for the show and it just didn't make
much of a difference in terms of our downloads but
I think with YouTube I may change that strategy
yeah YouTube does especially people with the
YouTube presence they might get more like you
know people coming over but you know what's funny
uh when you do the when you're trying to do
an interview and you want that interview to
grow your show if the person on your show has a
tight loyal Network that can often help so like
we had Bishop Barron on the podcast Bishop Baron
is a Catholic bishop he's got some he's got this
like social media YouTube Fall great speaker you
don't have to be Christian to like what he says
he just he talks about like life he's really good
answers the question I found him and I put him on
uh the podcast because I loved him his audience
is so loyal to them that he sent the episode to
his audience and said hey check me out and we got
this huge surge of new listeners from him Bishop
Barron and a lot of people know who he was right
but because he had his own uh following so that's
one and the second one is if you have a compelling
podcast that'll start to that'll start to spin
and you'll start to see more and more downloads
come in so like if you have a guest on that maybe
isn't so well known but it's a really really good
episode and they communicate something in a very
effective way then you'll see that start to speed
up with and you'll start to see this accelerating
with downloads and then lastly yeah the famous
person can help but only if there's something
going on with the famous person and you're the
first person to get them like you know like you
know so and so just divorced his wife or whatever
and all this controversy and but he's on your
show first then you may get otherwise what they
typically do is like you said they go on these
like tours yeah and they've been on 15 other
podcasts talking about the same thing thing it
doesn't do anything speak to the amount of I guess
community and how Community has helped uh grow
the show or do you guys do things you mentioned
earlier that you guys do a meet up or sometimes
hosting events for people who look through the
show tell me about your specific strategy when it
comes to Growing the show with Community yeah well
we have a private Forum that we started right out
the gates uh where on Facebook it's on Facebook
okay and anybody who bought a program would go in
there and it was a way for us to answer questions
and help you know with further coaching that kind
of turned into its own thing where now the
members in there are all hardcore fans and
they you know kind of moderate it themselves and
it's really cool we'll pop in and answer questions
um here and there um also you know we're
more concerned with engagement than we are
with like views so yeah you can have all these
followers on Instagram but like how many of them
are you engaging with and kind of creating that
relationship with so especially early days when
we didn't have you know now it's so hard to manage
because there's more people but we were in there
constantly answering questions and talking to
people and trying to build that that sense of
community and then yeah the Live Events um we love
those like we we typically what we do is we will
organize an event um 100 to 200 people will show
up we tend to keep them around that size and those
all over the country or yeah okay yeah yeah no
we've done them uh we did one in Colorado Texas
obviously a couple in California uh I can't
think where else we've done kind of all over
um and they're just they're great they're a lot of
fun you get to meet people you get to hear their
story how we impacted them it's always really and
how do you organize them at that event what is it
just them getting to know each other do you have
activities planned is there workouts no no usually
what it is is like a it'll be like a meet and
greet so they'll show up early we'll talk hang out
whatever then the event itself when we get up on
stage answer questions tell stories have a lot of
fun then afterwards take pictures hang out usually
that goes on to late in the evening um and then we
may do like a exclusive whatever where we take a
smaller group of people and go somewhere and hang
out and there may be a dinner with a small group
at some point maybe the day before or something
like that so that's like the format that are you
an introvert or an extrovert both oh yeah so how
do the how did those events impact your energy oh
God I'm so while I'm doing them I'm so energized
and then afterwards I'm so so tired yeah I love
it yeah that's great yeah like are you doing
merch anything else that you know helps Community
identify with the show yeah we have merchandise
um um the programs people will do that we have a
really strong community of trainers that listen to
us because they listen to us uh communicate health
and fitness and then they they learn from that and
they communicate it with their clients so they're
actually probably our most loyal I'd say fan base
like we go we we do these trainer events where we
work with a company called NCI they do um online
um like nutrition coaching certifications and that
is insane we show up there and like you're looking
at 500 coaches and trainers and they line up they
just want to talk to us and it's like it's amazing
it's really humbling it really is it's really
humbling yeah and um the merchandise is that a
big piece of Revenue or something you guys haven't
don't do much with it breaks even okay yeah how
about um a paid tier do you have do you have a
uh like a patreon or an exclusive we're going
to though that was your suggestion so we're
probably going to record uh episodes that are
um much more uh uncensored off the rails only yes
only you know yeah and so you you you convince us
of that so we're going to start to we're going to
pursue that I'm all over that yeah your audience I
mean that that's a no-brainer and it's so fun to
do that's like and so do you know I mean even as
honest and transparent as you guys are they're
damn sure for all of us there's these things
where you're like oh I can't say that yeah you
know what I mean but you you also know that when
you're with your truest most loyal fans they
understand they have a sense of humor you know
oh yeah the internet sometimes does not oh no
it's gonna be it'll be a good time I mean we're
excited about I mean you you talked us into it and
selfishly we're like yeah we want to do that that
sounds like fun we get to hang out and do another
podcast and maybe have a few drinks let's do it
okay and in closing is there one piece of advice
or or maybe one thing that you wish you had done
differently or it done sooner that would have made
a difference for the show yes uh build and nurture
an email list we did not do this soon enough
we were all stupid we thought email was dead
and then our friend uh who has a supplement
company and also sells books and stuff he goes
you guys got to do email and that is like that
was such a huge game changer for the business so
build an email list nurture it get them to want to
read your stuff and that is a is it it's like one
of the easiest ways to Market your products and
services super easy dude you just you just ended
the show with my love language that was awesome
well thank you so much for being here as a guest
on build your tribe um I want everyone to make
sure that check our show notes down below be sure
you follow their podcast like you guys did in fact
I'm going to link to it you guys did a podcast you
like broke down a lot of like just kind of
the nuts and bolts even talking about audio
and equipment and I thought that was phenomenal
definitely um not a normal topic for you guys
usually talking health and fitness but I think
there's so much to learn from the way they're
doing their shows uh so be sure to subscribe to
them on YouTube and of course wherever you're
listening to your podcast thank you so much being
here thank you so so much love you you guys you're
great thank you uh thank you so much for all your
time today was awesome appreciate it all right
I want to mention before we go sales written
an Incredible Book it's called the resistance
training Revolution if you're getting into
strength training I mean I know this is a business
Channel but uh I find that a lot of entrepreneurs
are also health-minded Fitness minded as well so
if resistance training strength training lifting
weights is something that you're interested in
learning about this is I really think this is kind
of like a 101 book um but it's so foundational and
again great guy you'll love the book I liked it on
Audible be sure to follow them on YouTube and of
course subscribe to their their podcast if you're
into health and fitness like I said I will link
to the show where they really broke down the nuts
and bolts of what they do to produce their show
on one of their previous episodes I think you'll
find that really interesting as well if you've
enjoyed this please be sure to double check and
make sure that you are subscribed don't forget to
hit the sub subscribe button if you're watching
on YouTube hit the like button let me know what
or who you would like to see next on the show and
as always I just want to say thank you for being
here it's my goal to be brief to be bright to make
it fun and then be done we're done see you soon
[Music]